>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's
talk a little bit about, well,
it's doing web components.
So for example, right now,
if I analyze the content, I have a main,
and inside the main,
I'm right now in an order page.
Can you see that order-page?
That's a custom element.
That's the order page.
If I'm going to the home,
now it's menu-page.
If I get into the details,
it's details-page, okay?
So these are web components.
That is actually the design pattern,
okay, web components.
Inside that web component,
it has a shadow-root, shadow DOM,
that actually that's kind of
its own mini DOM and CSS.
When you apply CSS, it applies only
to that tree, to that sub-tree and
not to the whole page.
That's the idea.
Anyway, and you have HTML, okay?
Well, these tags are actually defined
in a module, in an ECMAScript module.
And all of them,
if we go to the Network tab,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's do this so
we can see better.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Decrease
a little bit the font size, and
let's go to the home, refresh,
and now I'm going to see JS.
So you can see that every
DetailsPage.js is the web component for
DetailsPage, ProductItem, CartItem,
Menu, OrderPage, MenuPage.
So, when we load the project, actually,
all the pages are being loaded.
So the web component of all
the pages are being loaded.
This is how modules work.
When the page loads, the ECMAScript
engine creates a tree, a modules tree.
So I'm loading this module, that module
is importing from another module,
that other module is importing
from another module.
So it's downloading all
the JavaScript files, okay?
So, that loading process
is taking the network,
is taking time in parsing and
execution when the page loads.
And maybe we can increase
performance if we can do lazy load.
So for example, if I'm in the home,
I shouldn't download all the content for
the order.
If I'm getting into the order,
I'm gonna do that.
Okay, makes sense?
So now we are going to implement that.
So to do that, the first step
is to remove the static import.
So, right now,
these static imports are in app.js.
So if you open app.js, there is a section
here that says Web Components Imports.
These are static imports.
So, this is the one that says hey,
you should download OrderPage even
if you are not using it right now.
So if I remove OrderPage from here,
then it's not part of the tree anymore,
the import tree anymore.
So, if I go back here and refresh,
I shouldn't be seeing OrderPage,
just MenuPage and
DetailsPage, not OrderPage.
Now if I go to OrderPage,
I see nothing rendered.
Why is that?
Because there is an order
page component there or
tag, html tag,
that has no web component register.
So it's empty, okay?
So, what I need then is that
when you go to that section,
when you go to the order section, I wanna
dynamically import that file, okay?
Makes sense?
To solve the problem,
I need to open services, Router.js.
That has all the logic for routing.
Let me decrease the font size a little
bit, and go back, there we are.
So, here you can see that
it's creating the element of
type order-page at that point.
So but now we know that before doing that,
we need to download and
parse and execute lazy load.
That's the term.
We need to lazy load
the JavaScript file for that.
Before dynamic imports was
available in browsers,
there were a lot of techniques to do that.
So, one technique was actually
to inject a script tag,
and I'm not sure if you
have heard about JSONP.
Have you heard about JSONP,
JSON with payload [INAUDIBLE]?
Anyway, the idea is that something similar
to JSONP where you were loading that and
that script at the end should, callback
function so you know when it's ready.
It was really complicated.
Now it's actually much simpler.
So here we are going to
implement the Lazy Load Pattern.
We will just do this.
We are going to await for
importing components/OrderPage.js.
Import is a new function.
So it's the same import
that we use at the top.
It looks like the same, but
this one is a function.
The function version will
dynamically load that, and
it returns a promise, okay?
So I can use then and catch,
or I can use async await.
But to use await,
I need to change my function and
convert that into an async function, okay?
If not, I can just stay with then.
So I wait for that, and it will
just kind of stay there waiting for
that import to appear.
And now, I'm done, so pretty simple.
So going back to the home, I'm refreshing.
I'm going to order, and
now I'm seeing something,
which means it works.
What's the difference compared
with the previous version?
I mean, it's difficult to see
the difference visually in
the context of the page, but let me
decrease a little bit this, like that.
If I refresh,
I'm not seeing OrderPage until I'm
getting into the page for the first time.
So OrderPage and actually CartItem,
that is a dependency of OrderPage,
they're being downloaded
later when they are needed.
That's lazy load.
That's how you lazy load.
It can become web components, or
it can be any module, okay, so any module.
Again, talking about the registration
form example we mentioned before,
you load the JavaScript necessary for
that registration for
only when the user goes there.
>> Speaker 2: Have you seen that
pattern used with infinite scroll or
the intersection observer, or
is that gonna be too slow to-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: The thing is that
in that case when you
have an infinite scroll,
you are talking about data,
not behavior, so you are loading data.
I mean,
I don't think I can find a use case for
loading this in that moment, but yeah,
you have to understand that that
await is making an HTTP request.
And maybe not just one because it's
creating another tree because in fact,
in this case,
OrderPage is including CartItem.
So actually,
you need to download two files.
It can be 100 files, and it takes time.
So, if you are doing that in a scroll,
it's a bad practice.
Also, if you are reading the onscroll,
probably you are using
passive event listeners that, yeah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I don't think you will use this
pattern in that situation.